The pub was always doing gigs but for a long time it was only local bands and only on a Thursday.
So yeah there was definitely a pre-lip up time when although I think even then that was around
the like crazy Newport is the New Seattle time so there was big things happening even though it was
only local bands. We were still getting Guardian reporters turning up and it was a very very strange
time to be alive. I honestly don't know because I've been asked this question a lot of like loads
of students want to do documentaries on the TJ's years and things like that and I no matter how
hard I think about it like none of the bands went on to be absolutely stellar. I mean Catatonia did
really well but none of them went on to be like your kind of like U2 Ed Sheeran level none of
them did that. I genuinely don't know it may have just been how many bands there were but then I've
been involved in scenes in other cities and they have loads of bands as well. I couldn't tell you
why the world's press decided to descend on Newport for two years it was really weird and even being
involved in it like we'd get a call you know that the Guardian wants to come and interview you and
we'd be like why why do they care? I mean even like talking to the 60 foot dolls and things they no
one knew why it got that big or what on earth you know was the catalyst for that no one could put
their finger on it. It just happened and it was really strange. I mean we were in TJ's the one
night and like there's just literally reporters from major newspapers just turning up in TJ's on
a Friday night to ask people like what's it like living here and you're like I'm pretty sure it's
the same as living in any other large town in Britain in the 90s it's a bit shit and a bit all
right it's very very odd. So I know they did um I think it was the NME decided to bring 100 numbers
in Newport from the phone directory without looking at the names and see how many rock stars
they could get hold of and they actually managed to get hold of Mike Cole completely randomly by
choosing a random number and it was like yeah you probably within 100 numbers you probably did have
a good chance of finding someone that was in a band but they managed to get hold of the biggest
band from Newport and he absolutely swears that he never gave his parents number out to anyone
so there's no way they would have like known to do it and things very odd.
There's quite a few La Pop Gigs that stand out. The first couple of years after we moved the stage
there's some it's a band from Oregon called Larry and his Flask that stands out because they
Bluegrass Punk uh full brass section double bass standing drummer got stuck in the airport in Prague
not they flew in from America their driver was driving into Heathrow from Prague he got stuck
in traffic they ended up sleeping in the airport floor in Heathrow for seven hours and didn't
actually get to the pub until 10 minutes before stage time and we still managed to get them on
and the gig to go ahead and it was amazing and it was just that are they coming who knows they're
not here it's 10 to 10 they're due on and then they all just walked in with their instruments
and set up and that was a really strange but brilliant really like shows you how innovative
and amazing people can be when they want something to happen actually only about 20 people turned up
for that show but they were so good and it was their first time touring the UK so they had a
lot of dates left on the tour so they came back two weeks later and played again and word of mouth
had got around and there was 100 people there and it was amazing just within two weeks of word of
mouth they sold the place out the second time things like um Trash Talk the hardcore band they
always went down unbelievably well the second we announced one of those shows we knew it we sold
out in seconds and we knew it would be absolutely amazing and a little bit insane
that corner stage was dangerous though because Mike Cole from the 60 foot dolls once um knocked
a girl out with his bass they did a secret show and no one was supposed to know it was happening
in the way that everyone knows it's happening and I think about 200 people tried to climb into
upstairs and I missed most of it because I was downstairs on the door trying to like no absolutely
not we're full and yeah it was so yeah that's like a secret 60 foot dolls gig in lump I think it was
a warm-up for Redding festival or something literally he's rocking out like this and he
fell forward off the step she got smacked in the face by the bass stock massive black eye on the
floor unconscious and it was like yeah this is this stage has to go this is not safe think her
name was Julie but I can't be 100 sure but yeah he knocked her clean out she was on the floor they
showered her with free t-shirts and we showered her with free drinks like
please don't sue us here's all of the free stuff